hold the thought pay attention so this
is what i want y'all to do chat there's
two meditations here one we're going to
teach you guys in a little bit so first
meditation is pay attention to yourself
and notice what happens when you have a
goal and you're looking for motivation
notice the thought
that would get you to go and then notice
what happens to it
don't even try to hold it at first just
notice what happens to it right because
if you try to hold it then what's gonna
happen oh like
i need to go to the gym and then you're
like oh my god
oh my god i'm trying so hard to hold it
i'm trying so hard to hold it i'm trying
so hard to hold it
it's not actually thinking about the gym
or i need to go to the gym oh my god i'm
so dumb i can't hold it
i can't hold it i can't hold it i'm so
bad at this i'm so lazy
i'm so undisciplined not even holding
the thought
weird pay attention
so understand first chat open up that
user manual
look at the faq of your mind and learn
about yourself
second thing tarataka we're going to
teach you guys
a yantra okay so tarataka
is fixed point gazing so what i'm going
to teach you guys to do what we're going
to do is
open our we're going to like stare at
something
and we're going to like look at it
without blinking okay so what i want you
all to do
is i'm going to show you a picture and
i'm going to instruct you
to look at the middle of the picture
without blinking
now you can do a half-litted gaze if it
starts to get too painful you can close
your eyes
but try to hold your gaze as long as you
can your eyes will start to tear up a
little bit which is totally fine that's
actually like a good thing it's going to
lubricate your eyes if they start to dry
out
we're going to keep our eyes open for
about 30 to 90 probably 60 to 90 seconds
if you need to close them before that
that's totally fine
we're gonna stare at one point and then
i'm gonna instruct your mind what to do
okay so i'm gonna tell y'all to
concentrate
at one thing so your eyes are gonna be
pointing to one thing like this
but i'm gonna tell your attention to
move around the periphery
so i want you guys to stare at my nose
but pay attention to the corner of my
chair and you can sort of see it in your
peripheral vision does that make sense
you can move your attention away from
where your eyes are focused
i want everyone to sit up straight okay
so this is uh the sri antra that's on
wikipedia okay
anyone's looking for a source so what
we're gonna do i want y'all to
start by closing your eyes just close
your eyes first
sit up straight we're going to take a
deep breath in and out
good we're just going to calm down for a
second we're going to take a couple
breaths
and now i'm gonna ask you to slowly open
your eyes
and stare at the red dot right in the
center
okay we're not gonna blink now
stare at the red dot focus on it
look at it look at it look at it we're
going to just focus on that red dot
your mind will be distracted by the
sensations of not blinking
so that's okay just keep looking at the
dot
try to return your attention to it
squint if you need to i haven't done
this in a while i'm out of practice
[Music]
okay just look at the dot gently gently
now gently
relax so notice that as
you let the tension out it becomes
easier to look
deep breath in and out
focus on your breathing keep looking
don't blink
okay now as you stare at the red dot
i want you to focus on the yellow
triangle around it don't move your eyes
but let your
attention move to the yellow triangle
and after a breath go to the green
triangles around that remember we're not
going to move our eyes but move your
attention
outward expand your attention
and then expand outward to the black
triangles
and then expand outward to the red
don't let your eyes move
expand outward to the blue triangles
nice deep breath subtle and then slowly
move outward to what you see outside of
that the red petals
and then the yellow petals
take a deep breath in close your eyes
feel the relief and notice the after
image
look at the center of the after image
so focus on the center of the after
image with your eyes closed
and notice the different aspects so you
can even move outward from the center
and put your attention to the after
image
the triangles the circles
then you may even notice it's like hard
to hold on to the image
but you can almost relax a little bit
and it'll float to the surface
so what we're going to teach you how to
do is let it float forward so
look at it concentrate on it but if you
hold on too tight it may become too hard
all right now put your hands together in
front of you
rub them together rub rub rub rub rub
rub rub
and then cup them over your eyes
deep breaths in and out
now slowly open your eyes and let your
eyes come down
let your hands come down it's okay
blinking is fine better to blink than
hurt yourself
okay chat this is a forbidden jitsu
is a powerful technique there's so much
to understand about this technique it
will teach you guys so many different
things
so take home points number one do what
you can
if you need to blink you need to blink
okay practice
practice practice practice practice
makes perfect right so
adept meditators like can comfortably do
this for like 20 minutes 30 minutes
arguably maybe even up to an hour i
don't know i've never i don't think i've
ever done tractica for like longer than
half an hour
and the interesting thing is that
there's a very cool physiology behind it
too like you're the way that your photo
receptors work and stuff like that but
the key thing here
is focus that's all you guys really
need to learn from this and there's a
lot of other benefits too like
people who do thrateka really well learn
a real
like because we think about focusing is
effortful
right i don't know if people like get
this but
optimal flow state is not a state of
stress
it's a state of relaxed focus
so tradica is the best practice to learn
relaxed focus
and it's especially in the second phase
of tradica after we close our eyes
because if you're too stressed the image
is like shaky
and you have to like sort of like step
back and the image will float to the
surface
but holding it there if you step back
too much it'll slip away
so it's like this sweet spot of like
attention and focus
right so if you didn't see the image
that's okay so
the image is going to become more clear
the longer you're able to keep your eyes
open
okay and there's a physiologic reason
for that and it has to do with the way
that your
your i think rhodopsin is the pigment
exhausts
in your eyes and how it needs to get
replenished
the shape is called the yantra that is
sri yantra
and there's also spiritual elements to
this practice as well
by the way there's a lot about this
stuff in dr k's guide um for people who
are like curious
and and you know more about it
but there there's even a spiritual
component where the object
that you concentrate on is
supposed to cultivate a particular kind
of spiritual energy
now when i teach meditation i sort of
have three kind of perspectives on it
one is psychological one is
neuroscientific and one is spiritual
or physiological as well so like
this practice i feel really confident in
like the psychological effects and the
neuroscientific effects
i understand the physiology of what
happens in your eyes and like why it
happens and stuff like that
the spiritual stuff you know i
personally place value in but you don't
need to
people are curious about that we can
teach you guys about different kinds of
yantras and
cultivating you know cosmic energies and
all that good stuff but
let's step set that aside so let's just
be a little bit scientific today and
focus on
the psychological and experience
experiential aspect and also like the
neuroscience of
how meditation helps motivation
so someone's asking why does this help
motivation because
we just explained that that motivation
is the ability to
hold one thing in your mind for an
extended period of time
and this is the practice that's
basically like push-ups for that
someone's asking if you want to quit
something can you think about not doing
it
abso no because
wait hold on this is a tricky question
if you want to quit something can you
think
about not doing it no because then
you're thinking about not doing it
if you want to quit something you can
not think about it
that'll work and i know it sounds kind
of weird but think about all of the
things that you've quit
why did you quit them because you
stopped thinking about them
right so if you like think about like
getting into a game right oh there's a
bunch of hype there are a bunch of
advertisements each of those
advertisements
is putting the thought in your head then
you see your favorite streamers like
playing beta and it's like oh my god
then you're thinking about it more and
more then you play the game
you play it for eight hours and during
that eight hours
you're thinking about the game and then
when you go to bed at night you're
thinking about the game and when you
wake up in the morning you're thinking
about the game and then what do you want
to do you want to play it
think about the games that you all used
to play when you were nine
why don't you play them anymore do you
think about them and not play them no
you stopped thinking about it
right why do we stop playing games chad
because we stopped thinking about them
can you go too far
ocd absolutely you can go too far that
is exactly what ocd is i don't know if
someone's joining late but like we
literally talked about ocd
so check out the vod i guess so
someone's asking where can i learn all
of this ayurveda knowledge like you so
first thing to understand this isn't
about ayurveda this has very little to
do with ayurveda
so this is more yoga um and
it's because people have been asking
that question hey dr k where can i learn
this stuff that's why we put together
together dr k's guide
because it's not ayurveda like i can't
point you all to a single book
what what we teach on stream is a
synthesis of knowledge
it includes all the oh hold on it
includes
all the crap on the bookshelf right
there are books on ayurveda their books
on neuroscience their books on
psychology
their books on yoga their books on
meditation their books on buddhism
we try to put it all together for you
i'm done with my part of the guide i was
highly motivated for a long period of
time even though it was
obscenely painful and tiring but i'm
done
so now it's in post-production why don't
you use the word mindfulness
there's like literally a video about
that in dr k's guide so here's the
reason i don't use mindfulness
because mindfulness is not meditation
so what happened is
scientists who had had personal
experiences with meditation
tried to figure out
like they're all these different types
of meditation right there's like mantra
chanting and
there's like zen meditation and then
there's like dantrix meditation
and then there's like you know kundalini
meditation
and kriya meditation and so like people
are sitting there like how do i
understand like how can we study this
because it's so different
and so what they did is they settled on
mindfulness what they did is they took
all of the meditative traditions and
they tried their best to reduce it down
to the most
common component and what they settled
on was mindfulness
and then we started studying mindfulness
and the way that i describe it
is like there's bread there's pasta
there's couscous there's rice and then
there are carbs
and so there's value in understanding
carbs but
like i don't want to feed people carbs
i want to feed people like rice and
bread and couscous right like
those are the real thing like you can
reduce something to its most basic
building blocks
but in my experience meditation
is in a sense better than mindful or
mindfulness is just one branch of
meditation because there are a lot of
different branches of meditation
and mindfulness is just one of them it's
in a specific branch so we teach some
kinds of mindfulness
but sometimes we don't teach mindfulness
we teach it on us which are the opposite
of mindfulness
so thrataka is not mindfulness
mindfulness
tends to be the wit cultivating the
witnessing attitude which is observing
things
dharana is different because it's
focusing your mind it's not observing
something
it's forcing it into a place and so when
i work with patients with trauma i do
not teach mindfulness
because when you have trauma and you
have psychological defense mechanisms
that are
trying to keep it varied and you just
like
observe it and you let it out like those
people don't do well
and so even if you look at the
techniques
the mindfulness techniques that work for
people with trauma they're not really
true mindfulness
they're actually grounding techniques
which is different they're focusing
techniques they're
actually the exact opposite of
mindfulness but we just call it
mindfulness in the scientific
community because that no one you know
now that science has discovered
something they think they understand it
which is what happens with science
how often should we do this meditation i
would say at a minimum of every other
day
ideally every day five to twenty minutes
sakshibhav
s a k s h i b a b h a v
it means witnessing attitude in sanskrit
it's just once it's the most actually
basic state of consciousness
on the path to meditation yeah so people
are asking how to do this so what i
would say is like you know start with 30
to 60 seconds
of open-eyed thratika and then close
your eyes and do that
and then you can try again and
eventually what you want to do is try to
extend the amount that your eyes are
open because remember you're going to
have the eyes closed for the same amount
of time
so like if i can hold my eyes open for
90 seconds
and then i keep my eyes closed for like
another 90 seconds or two minutes or
five minutes
that's fine and then over time you want
to work your way up to 20 minutes of
total practice